First of all Thank You for giving me this oppurtunity.

In this report document i will share my journey of doing this cool precog task in detail explaining my decisions in each and every step and the result that i got,
whether it is a success or a failure and probably the reason why i got that result upto my Knowledge and understanding.

I have read about the tasks and decided to go with the graphs task.

Reasons Why i have chosen this task above others:
1. I really love graphs.
2. I have read about Knowledge graphs, they are a very cool way of storing data (node1 -> relationship(edge) -> node2).
Knowledge graphs can store the meaning of the given data very efficiently unlike the traditional relational Database model where we need to use foreign keys for showing relationships between entities.
3. Also I am very interested in blood relations concept in logical reasoning (while preparing for my NTSE preparation for MAT (Mental Aptitude Test) i got in touch with Blood relations concept and I really love that concept)
as this task includes extracting a lot of information from the Knowledge graph of the family, i think its super fun!!.
4. To be honest i never taught that graphs are used in AIML research until i read it in slide shown by professor PK in our DnA course.
After that i explored about Graphs involvment and i was fascinated with the kind of research that's going on.
5. Also there is a lot creativity and fun part in this task on how to come up with metric deciding the closeness of two individuals in the Knowledge graph.
6. Also deciding the rules and finding whether they hold good or not in task3 also seems super fun
7. ofcourse Along with the above reasons, To be honest, i got really overwhelmed after seeing NLP, CV tasks and i dont know anything about quant.

Hence i chose Graphs Task.

Now why dont we go into my journey of doing this graph task.

I have downloaded the dataset and had a look at it. 
It contains 2 files train.txt (13821 lines) and test.txt (590 lines)

As it is mentioned in the Doc, i will only use train.txt for training unless explicitly mentioned.

Task-1 : Dataset Exploration

step-1 : loading and parsing dataset.

The dataset was loaded in a .ipynb file by parsing each line of train.txt into head–relation–tail triples. These triples were stored both as a structured DataFrame using pandas for analysis and as a directed multigraph using NetworkX, where entities represent nodes and relations represent labeled directed edges.
Collected all unique heads and tails. Combined them into a single set. Removed duplicates.

Why is this crucial?
Because In a knowledge graph, Entities are nodes. Both head and tail represent entities. The same entity can appear as head in one triple and tail in another.
ex: alice motherof bob as 1 triple and bob son of alice as another triple.

i extracted all unique relationship types and stored them seperately.because relations are edge labels and they define semantics of connections.
Also they are treated differently from entities in many Knowledge graph models.

i built a directed multigraph where direction is from head -> tail and multiple edges are allowed between same nodes.

Since the Metafam dataset guarantees at most one relation per ordered entity pair, a simple directed graph is sufficient, however, I chose a directed multigraph representation as a safe and general modeling choice.

Why I am putting multiple representation of the same dataset as Raw triples, DataFrame, Node list, Relation list, Graph Object
because i think Pandas DataFrames are required for Analytics, statistics.

Also i have stored in a graph object because in future i can apply algorithms and graph techniques for more datamining and extraction of information.

I created an undirected graph as well from the directed multi graph before because, Family connectivity ignores direction.
Parent/child still connects people
We want family clusters

step-2 : Core Graph statistics

In this part we use graph 

Graph density:

Density measures how full the graph is.
Density = 2E/(n(n-1))

we are measuring density because:
1. Family graphs are naturally sparse
2. Confirms realism of dataset

